igsr_data.md, before:

#The International Genome Sample Resource - 1000 Genomes Sample Data

The International Genome Sample Resource (IGSR) presents all the data it has on the 1000 Genomes samples through the [1000 Genomes FTP site](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/) and the [mirror site](ftp://ftp-trace.ncbi.nih.gov/1000genomes/ftp/) hosted at the NCBI

Currently this FTP site contains the three main releases of the 1000 Genomes Project. 

##1000 Genomes Phase 3 release

The Phase 3 release contains more than 84 million variants and genotypes for 2504 individuals from 26 different populations. These files are presenting in VCF format in the [20130502 release directory](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/release/20130502/)

The sequence and alignment data which support these results can be found under [phase3/data](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/phase3/data). 

Functional annotation, genotypes for related samples, per sample depth cover and other affiliated resources can be found in the [supporting directory](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/release/20130502/supporting/)

##1000 Genomes Phase 1 release

The Phase 1 release contains 35 millon variants and genotypes for 1092 individuals from 14 different populations. This study was published as an open access article in [October 2012 in Nature](http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v491/n7422/full/nature11632.html).

The variants and supporting information can be found in the [phase1/analysis_results directory](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/phase1/analysis_results/).

The sequence and alignment data can be found under [phase1/data](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/phase1/data)

##1000 Genomes Pilot Release

The Pilot release contains 14M variants and genotypes from 179 individuals and 4 populations. This study was published as an open access article in [October 2010 in Nature](http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v467/n7319/full/nature09534.html)

The variants can be found under [pilot_data/paper_data_sets](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/pilot_data/paper_data_sets/)

The sequence and alignment data can be found under [pilot_data/data](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/pilot_data/paper_data_sets/)

##1000 Genomes Data Access Tools

The [FTP site](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/) is accessible over [FTP](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/) and [HTTP](http://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/). It is also accessible via two fast download tools, aspera and globus grid ftp.

###Aspera

The data is also via an Aspera server from both sites. To be able to use this service you need to download the [Aspera connect software](http://asperasoft.com/software/transfer-clients/connect-web-browser-plug-in/). This provides both a browser plug in for downloading data and a bulk download client called ascp. An example command line to get a file using ascp looks like:

```
ascp -i bin/aspera/etc/asperaweb_id_dsa.putty -Tr -Q -l 100M -L- fasp-g1k@fasp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk:vol1/ftp/release/20100804/ALL.2of4intersection.20100804.genotypes.vcf.gz ./
```
The location of -i will depend on where the ascp program was installed.

This password should not ask you for a password. All the IGSR data is freely available and should not ever request a password for download.

###Globus Grid FTP

The 1000 Genomes FTP site is available as an end point in the [Globus Online system](https://www.globus.org/). In order to access the data you need to sign up for an account with Globus via their [signup page](https://www.globus.org/SignUp). You must also install the [Globus Connect Personal software](https://support.globus.org/entries/24044351) and setup a personal endpoint to download the data too.

The 1000 Genomes end point is one of several EMBL-EBI hosted end points and is called ebi#1000genomes

When you have setup your personal end point you should be able to start a transfer using their web front end.

![Globus screenshot](http://www.1000genomes.org/sites/1000genomes.org/files/documents/globus_1000genomes.png)

The Globus website has support for [setting up accounts](https://support.globus.org/entries/23583857-Sign-Up-and-Transfer-Files-with-Globus-Online), and [installing the globus personal connect software](https://support.globus.org/forums/22130516-Globus-Connect-Personal)

Commit message:

Update so the data page
Updates adding more info about the pilot and phase1 datasets

igsr_data.md, after:

#The International Genome Sample Resource - 1000 Genomes Sample Data

The International Genome Sample Resource (IGSR) presents all the data it has on the 1000 Genomes samples through the [1000 Genomes FTP site](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/) and the [mirror site](ftp://ftp-trace.ncbi.nih.gov/1000genomes/ftp/) hosted at the NCBI

Currently this FTP site contains the three main releases of the 1000 Genomes Project. If you have any questions about where to find the data please email [info@1000genomes.org](info@1000genomes.org)

##1000 Genomes Phase 3 release

The Phase 3 release contains more than 84 million variants and genotypes for 2504 individuals from 26 different populations. These files are presenting in VCF format in the [20130502 release directory](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/release/20130502/)

The sequence and alignment data which support these results can be found under [phase3/data](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/phase3/data). 

Functional annotation, genotypes for related samples, per sample depth cover and other affiliated resources can be found in the [supporting directory](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/release/20130502/supporting/)

##1000 Genomes Phase 1 release

The Phase 1 release contains 35 millon variants and genotypes for 1092 individuals from 14 different populations. This study was published as an open access article in [October 2012 in Nature](http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v491/n7422/full/nature11632.html).

The variants and supporting information can be found in the [phase1/analysis_results directory](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/phase1/analysis_results/).

The sequence and alignment data can be found under [phase1/data](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/phase1/data)

##1000 Genomes Pilot Release

The Pilot release contains 14M variants and genotypes from 179 individuals and 4 populations. This study was published as an open access article in [October 2010 in Nature](http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v467/n7319/full/nature09534.html)

The variants can be found under [pilot_data/paper_data_sets](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/pilot_data/paper_data_sets/)

The sequence and alignment data can be found under [pilot_data/data](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/pilot_data/paper_data_sets/)

##1000 Genomes Data Access Tools

The [FTP site](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/) is accessible over [FTP](ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/) and [HTTP](http://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/). It is also accessible via two fast download tools, aspera and globus grid ftp.

###Aspera

The data is also via an Aspera server from both sites. To be able to use this service you need to download the [Aspera connect software](http://asperasoft.com/software/transfer-clients/connect-web-browser-plug-in/). This provides both a browser plug in for downloading data and a bulk download client called ascp. An example command line to get a file using ascp looks like:

```
ascp -i bin/aspera/etc/asperaweb_id_dsa.putty -Tr -Q -l 100M -L- fasp-g1k@fasp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk:vol1/ftp/release/20100804/ALL.2of4intersection.20100804.genotypes.vcf.gz ./
```
The location of -i will depend on where the ascp program was installed.

This password should not ask you for a password. All the IGSR data is freely available and should not ever request a password for download.

###Globus Grid FTP

The 1000 Genomes FTP site is available as an end point in the [Globus Online system](https://www.globus.org/). In order to access the data you need to sign up for an account with Globus via their [signup page](https://www.globus.org/SignUp). You must also install the [Globus Connect Personal software](https://support.globus.org/entries/24044351) and setup a personal endpoint to download the data too.

The 1000 Genomes end point is one of several EMBL-EBI hosted end points and is called ebi#1000genomes

When you have setup your personal end point you should be able to start a transfer using their web front end.

![Globus screenshot](http://www.1000genomes.org/sites/1000genomes.org/files/documents/globus_1000genomes.png)

The Globus website has support for [setting up accounts](https://support.globus.org/entries/23583857-Sign-Up-and-Transfer-Files-with-Globus-Online), and [installing the globus personal connect software](https://support.globus.org/forums/22130516-Globus-Connect-Personal)
